---
templateKey: blog-post
title: 'Top 5 social media marketing tips for small businesses '
date: 2020-05-16T17:03:02.229Z
description: >-
  These top 5 tips are going to point you in the right direction for creating
  the best marketing strategy for social media..
featuredpost: true
featuredimage: /img/social-media-post.jpg
tags:
  - Social Media
  - Marketing
  - ''
---
Marketing is a key aspect for all businesses, it’s even more important for startups and small businesses looking to grow and establish a name in the market. It is very difficult to achieve this goal without an effective marketing strategy. It’s hard to know where to start and the answer is always the same with everyone, it starts with you! You have to be committed and willing to see it through. With anything new, it’s important not to set expectations too high from day one, it takes time to build up to dream goals. You’ll find that you’ll go through a learning curve with trial and error. Your marketing efforts will reach higher levels if you keep at it.

**1. You need a game plan!**

Before jumping on to any ideas that come to mind, it is key to thoroughly plan them. Write down your primary and secondary goals first and then branch out from them touching on general goals such as lead generation and website traffic etc.

This helps you visualise what you want to achieve; it’s very important to refer back to your set goals and before taking any marketing action, in order to achieve them. Then you can decide on how you should move forward.

Make sure your primary and secondary goals are aligned with your target market. If you realise that you don’t know enough about the market to distinguish this alignment, you need to conduct further research before moving on with your marketing strategy.

**2. Get yourself on as many social media platforms as you can!**

Now you know who your market is and what your goals are. It’s time to get your content out. All social media platforms, have their own rules and guidelines, which you should first make yourself aware of when joining. These are the top 5 social giants:

* Instagram
* Facebook
* Twitter
* Linkedin
* Snapchat

It can be very exciting and both overwhelming when starting out on a new platform. It’s important to understand that even though all of these platforms come under social media, they all work slightly differently. Instagram and Snapchat are great for photos and tend to cater to a younger crowd, Facebook and Twitter are more news based where people want to read about what’s going on. Linkedin is all about networking professionally. You’ll find each goal might be better targeted at some platforms and not others. Spend some time getting familiar with the different promotions you can do on there and how users engage with each platform.

**3. Your social SEO is key!**

SEO stands for search engine optimisation and this is the key to being found on the internet. Just like how you may search for what you are interested in on Google; many people do this on social media. To be as optimised as possible, add a lot of key words and phrases to your posts that your target market has potential to search for. This will boost you to the top of the list, making you ten times more likely to be interacted with!

**4. Mix it up and get creative**

When you think of social media marketing, the first impression is that it must be fleeting, easy to absorb, short and to the point. But it is also good to get a good amount of content out there in a substantial form:

“The biggest misunderstanding about consumers is that they only engage with short, concise content. The truth is they will engage with what is interesting, no matter how long it is. Scientific evidence is proving that long-form content drives conversion and search engine optimization when done right.. -[Edward Bourelly](https://twitter.com/ebourelly),[Omni-Culture Marketing, Inc.](https://www.edwardbourelly.com/)

Get creative in a way where you cover the spectrum of different types of content, use images, video, audio, animation and most of all present a clear message which shows your authenticity, aesthetics and value.

**5. Put it all together**

These five points will help you get started on marketing your business on social media. It is the fastest, cheapest and easiest way to get your business known out there, reaching millions of ready users waiting to click on what’s next. Mallory Blumer Walsh is a reputable Vice President of Marketing at Stackla who talks of the value of social media in marketing and the demand for content.

"Social media and smartphones have given rise to the era of visual content. In 2019, users will continue to demand highly personalized visual experiences." -[Mallory (Blumer) Walsh](https://twitter.com/mblumer),[Stackla](http://www.stackla.com/)

My final top tip would be to make sure you definitely get yourself on Instagram and it is the high rider and contender for establishing your business image.

"According to[Business Insider](https://www.businessinsider.com/instagram-stories-400-million-daily-active-users-snapchat-2018-6), Instagram Stories draws nearly 400 million users. I would make this an essential in your social media strategy for 2019." -[Glenn Gray](https://twitter.com/glenncgray),[Buffalo Agency](http://buffalo.agency/)

Don’t miss out on a huge part of free advertising when it comes to social media. Whatever the business, it should be made available online because that’s where everyone is looking for the next best thing.